# surveydata

 Surveys are determining characteristics or features of a population. Of course there can be a myriad of characteristics of any kind. A popular characteristic is for example census data recording various details of a population. Another popular characteristic are oppinions determined with oppinion polls. However from a technical standpoint researching the whole population is often economical not possible. For this reason random samples are taken, whereby each sample represents a part of the population. The size of the part determines the weight of the sample with regard to the population. Random samples are taken in different ways, for example as simple random samples, stratified random samples or cluster samples. The survey design can increase in complexity, when samples are nested with these methods into each other.

The survey weight package offers a function "svydesign" for creating an svydesign object: svydesign(data = apisrs, weights = ~pw, fpc = ~fpc, id = ~1). This object specifies the data, weights, and sample methods used in the survey. This object is essential for working with the survey package and allows using a lot of analytical functions like svytable (contingency table), svyby (contingency table grouped by), svymean or svychisq (Chi-Square test for drawing inferences) in an easy way.

All these functions account for the weights of the sample on ground of the complex survey design in relation to the population. This allows drawing conclusion from the sample to the population. Without accounting for the weights calculating directly with the sample data particular samples would be over- or underrepresented. This crooked distribution would then lead to false conclusions about the population. 
